## Week 1: 01/18

Introduction to the Course: Class Intros & Expectations 
Review of NIH system, IC assignment, Dual Assignment, Selecting a study 
section 

* Introductions:
  * My FOA: https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-OD-22-028.html
  * Karen said, about my proposal of CCC + sex differences, that it's important to have preliminary data.
* There is a lot of diversity in the group.
  * that's great, because that's how the grant will be reviewed
  * so it has to be clear, they need to understand the importance of the proposal
* Goals/Objectives of Class:
  * Negoticate and navigate the NIH Grant process
  * Generate a reasonable proposal for an R01
* Class assigments and due dates:
  * **Feb 8th**: Specific Aims + Significance + Innovation
  * **Feb 15th**: fill out Rubrics for assigned peer review proposals
  * **March 8th**: grant application: specific aims to research plan
  * ...
* Peer reviewing: how will it work?
* Are you ready to submit an R01?
  * Early Stage Investigator? What's your timeline?
  * is the topic for the R01 different from what I did in the postdoc, K?
    * if it is very different, you're gonna need more time to support with preliminary data
    * do you have papers in your area?
    * for an R01, they really look at this
    * do you have your collaborators in place?
    * did you talk with your program officer at NIH?
* the life of an NIH grant:
  * Center for Scientific Review:
    * the grants goes here, they assigned an IC and SRG
    * then the grant is reviewed
    * study sections
  * IC (Institutes and Centers):
  * The Council is composed of very senior people, with lots of publications
  * The PO should be contacted:
    * before submission
      * **I should do this**
    * after peer review and to get/know the score/summary statement
    * after the council concurrence
* what is a program officer?
  * prior to submission:
    * project fit at institute
    * email ahead of time to set up an appointment, a least a few months prior to submission
    * discuss appropriate mechanism for your career stage and data
      * for instance: should you be applying for an R01 or R21?
  * after review/post award:
    * reviewing the summary statement
    * resubmissions
    * change in scientific direction:
      * "just worry about getting the money, then you can do whatever you want"
        * this is not true
    * PO can help PI to interpret the summary statement
  * Find the right home for your research:
    * reporter: https://reporter.nih.gov
  * CSR (Center for Scientific Review) decides:
    1. the IC,
    2. the study section each application will go
  * The abstract and specific aims is mostly what directs where the application goes (which IC)
    * other variables that influence this: outcomer variables.
  