## Week 3: 02/01

Specific Aims, Significance and Innovation Sections.

**Questions:**
* Looks like I have to write a letter of intent
  * I started a new discussion in canvas about this.
* The RFA says that applications should focus on topics such as:
  1. research applications that examine sex and gender factors and their intersection in understanding health and disease; and
  2. research that addresses one of the five objectives from Strategic Goal 1 of the 2019-2023 [Trans-NIH Strategic Plan for Women's Health Research](https://orwh.od.nih.gov/sites/orwh/files/docs/ORWH_Strategic_Plan_2019_02_21_19_V2_508C.pdf) "Advancing Science for the Health of Women."

* Meet with Karen:
  * when I have the Specific Aims, schedule a meeting with Karen
  * send her an email to request a meeting
    * we would need an hour for the specific aims
  * **IMPORTANT**: specific aims due date MOVED TO Feb 15

* R01, overall planning steps:
  * evolve into an overarching question
    * is the question important to the field?
    * is the question novel?
    * is the question testable? are those experiments feasible?
  * establish priorities:
    * what are the most important components that will answer the question?
    * if you answer these questions, will it move the field forwardf?
  * define the variables:
    * are these variables a direct measuremetn of the question? for example, intermediate endpoint vs endpoint in CVD example
    * are they indirect? what are the other modifiers to those vartiables being measured?
  * define the study population/animal model/cell culture, etc?
    * if a unique population, will the findings be generalizable?
      * IMPORTANT: sex as a biological variable is key here!
      * there is a lot of attention in the NIH about sex health dispartities
    * if the model is very specific, are there compensatory mechanisms (confounders) that could lead to erroneous conclusions?
  * controls:
    * are controls appropriate?
  * interpretation of findings:
    * compare models, controls, study populations
  * anticipate next steps as well as problems, error and biases
  * if we know there is a weakness in the hypothesis, approach or methodology, address the weakness directly in the application; do not think the reviewer won't notice the weakness.
  * power calculation, sample size justfication and statistics
  * do not make the background section a review article (it's a lot of wasted space)
  * CAREFUL WITH MISSPELLINGS and errors
  * successful grant:
    * no formula
    * excelent science,
    * good grantsmanship (clear and convincing writing),
    * evidence of past productivity
    * future potential
    * and some luck
  
  * required sections of a grant:
    * specific aims
    * research strategy:
      * significance
      * innovation
      * approach
    * preliminary data (not in separate section)
    * publications are my currency, my money
    * environment: could be pretty discriminatory (for not top universities)

* specific aims:
  * very important page
  * will determine referral to IC and study section
  * it introduces your proposal to the reader
  * the reviewer should finish the specific aims page and understand the overall goal of the project,
    how you will address these goals including the design of the stsudy, population, statistics and be
    convinced of the importance of the topic
  * this is difficult: needs to be detailed and concise
  * do not underestimate the importance of the words you choose
  * introductory paragraph:
    * importance and clinical relevancy
    * highlight gaps and point out how the proposal will address those gaps
    * state the overall goal of the proposal
    * put references in specific aims
    * no figures
  * aims:
    * avoid general, non-specific wording like "characterize"
    * each aim should have a hypothesis
    * hypothesis should be directional and testable
    * outcome
    * preliminiary data for each of the aims
      * preliminary data shouuld support the overall goal
      * provides evidence of feasibility
      * if the preliminary data is a fact, then it should be published/posted
    * it's important to have a good summary paragraph at the end?
  * specific aim rubric:
    * she has a table I pasted in the grants google doc
    * do the aims build on each other to contribute to the overall goal of the proposal? is the flow logical?
    * are the aims dependent on each other?
    * is the grant a "good package"?

* significance:
  * pasted the table/list in grants page
  * be a little bit political here
    * don't criticize too much other's work, one of them could be in the roaster

* innovation:
  * pasted the table/list in grants page


THINK ABOUT THE PRELIMINARY DATA I HAVE
